Warm-up
In Qualifications, All-Around Final Team Final and Apparatus Finals.
− Each competing gymnast (including substitute of injured gymnast) is entitled to a 50 sec. touch warm-up period immediately prior to
the competition on the podium on all apparatus in accordance with the Technical Regulations that govern that competition.
NOTES:
− In the Qualifications or Team Final, for preparation of any apparatus prior to an exercise (during the touch warm-up and
competition), any FOP accredited person from the federation of the gymnasts may assist. In the All-Around or Apparatus
Finals, a maximum of three people (the competing gymnast, coach, and 1 other FOP accredited person) may be on the podium
to prepare the apparatus.
− The end of the warm-up period is identified by an audible signal. If a gymnast is mentally and physically prepared to vault or is still on
the apparatus at that time, they may complete the element or sequence started. Following the warm-up period or during the
“competition pause”, the apparatus may be prepared, but not used.
- Timing related to all exercises (start of exercise and exercise duration) will be done in 1 second increments.
− There will be a conspicuous signal from the D1 judge (at official FIG competitions, a green light) 30 seconds before their
exercise is expected to begin.
− In Qualification and Team Final the entire warm-up time belongs to the team. The team must pay attention to the time
elapsed so that the last gymnast receives a warm-up.
− In mixed-groups the warm-up time belongs personally to the gymnast. The order of warm up should be the same as the order
of competition.
Article 2.2 Responsibilities of the Gymnast
a) To know the Code of Points and conduct himself accordingly.
b) To submit, or have their coach submit, a written request at least 24 hours before podium training to the Superior Jury President to
assess the difficulty of a new element.
c) To submit, or have their coach submit, a written request at least 24 hours before podium training to the Superior Jury President to
raise the Horizontal Bar; or to submit such requests in accordance with the Technical Regulations that govern that competition.
Article 2.3 Duties of the Gymnast.
General
a) To present himself raising 1 or 2 arms and thereby acknowledge the D1 judge at the commencement of his exercise and to acknowledge
the same judge at the conclusion of his exercise.
b) To begin the exercise within 30 seconds of the green light or signal from D1 judge (on all apparatus).
c) To remount within 30 seconds after a fall (the timing starts when the gymnast is on his feet after the fall). In this time the gymnast can
recuperate, re-chalk, confer with his coach and remount. If a gymnast intentionally remains off of his feet, in order to avoid the 30
second from starting (resting, adjusting grips, receiving chalk from coach, delaying the competition without justification, etc.), then
the following rule may be applied from Article 2.4.e: “Other undisciplined or abusive behaviour - 0.3 from the Final Score by the D1
Judge”
d) To leave the podium immediately after the conclusion of their exercise.
e) To refrain from changing the height of any apparatus, unless permission has been granted.
f) To refrain from speaking with active judges during the competition.
g) To refrain from delaying the competition, remaining on the podium for too long, remounting the podium on completion of his
exercise, and from otherwise abusing his rights or infringing on those of any other participant.
h) To refrain from any other undisciplined or abusive behavior or infringing on those of any other participant (i.e. marking the floor
carpet with magnesium, damaging any apparatus surface or parts during preparation for his exercise or removing springs from the
spring board, spraying pommel horse or vault table with water or other substance. These violations will be treated as apparatus
related violations, and will be deducted as large errors with 0.5 points).
i) To notify the Superior Jury, if a necessity arises to leave the competition hall. The Competition may not be delayed through his
absence. To leave the supplementary mats in position (for landing) during the entire exercise.
j) To participate in the respective Award Ceremony dressed according to FIG Protocol.
Competition Attire
a) They must wear long gymnastics pants and socks on Pommel Horse, Rings, Parallel Bars and Horizontal Bar. Long gymnastics pants,
socks and/or slippers that are black or the darker shades of blue, brown or green are not permitted.
b) They have the option of wearing short pants with or without socks or long gymnastics pants with socks on Floor Exercise and Vault.
c) The wearing of a gymnastics singlet on all apparatus is compulsory.
d) They have the option of wearing of gymnastic footwear and / or socks.
e) They must wear the bib number supplied by the organizing committee.
f) They must wear a national identification or emblem on their singlet in accordance with the most recent FIG Rules Competition Clothing
and Advertising.
g) They must wear only those logos, advertising and sponsorship identifiers that are permitted in the most recent FIG Rules Competition
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 6

Clothing and Advertising.
h) The competition attire must be identical for members from the same federation in the Qualifications and Team Final Competitions. In
the Qualifications individual gymnasts from the same federation (without a team) may wear different competition attires.
i) Gymnast must refrain from wearing compression sleeves during competition. Handguards, body bandages, and wrist wraps are
permitted; they must be securely fastened, in good repair and should not detract from the aesthetics of the performance. Skin-colored
bandages are recommended.
Articles 2.4 Penalties.
a) The normal penalty for a violation of the rules and expectations presented in Article 2 and Article 3 are considered medium errors
of 0.30 points for behavioral violations and large errors of 0.50 points for apparatus related violations.
b) A few other possibilities for penalties also exist and these are outlined below.
c) Unless otherwise indicated these penalties are always applied by the D1 judge to the Final Score for that exercise.
d) In extreme cases, the gymnast or coach may be expelled from the competition hall in addition to suffering the specified penalty.
e) Violations and the associated penalties are:
Articles 2.4.1. Table of Violations and Penalties.
Violation Penalty
Behaviour Related Violations
Any attire violations (Art. 2.3). 0.30 from the Final Score (once for a competition
session) Applied by the Superior Jury President.
Non respect of the official warm up time. 0.30 from the Final Score by the D1 judge.
Not acknowledging the D1 judge before or after the exercise. 0.30 for each time from the Final Score by the D1 judge.
Exceeding 30 sec. before commencing exercise. 0.30 from the Final Score by the D1 judge.
Exceeding 60 sec. before commencing exercise. Exercise is terminated.
Exceeding 30 sec. before continuing after a fall. 0.30 from the Final Score by the D1 judge.
Exceeding 60 sec. before continuing after a fall. Exercise is terminated at the fall
Remounting podium after the exercise. 0.30 from the Final Score by the D1 judge.
Other undisciplined or abusive behavior. 0.30 from the Final Score by the D1 judge.
Apparatus Related Violations
Non-permitted presence of spotter. 0.50 from the Final Score by the D1 judge.
Incorrect use of magnesium and/ or damaging apparatus, 0.50 from the Final Score by the D1 judge.
including spraying (excluded PB).
Illegal use of supplementary mats or non-use where required. 0.50 from the Final Score by the D1 judge.
Coach moving supplementary mats during the exercise. 0.50 from the Final Score by the D1 judge.
Changing the height of the apparatus without permission. 0.50 from the Final Score by the D1 judge.
Re-arrangement or removal of springs from the springboard. 0.50 from the Final Score by the D1 judge.
Other Individual Violations
Absent from the competition area without permission, failure Disqualification from remainder of competition (By
to return and complete the competition. Superior Jury).
Absent from Victory Ceremony. Result and Final Score is annulled for team and
individual purposes (By Superior Jury).
Performing without signal or green light. Final Score = 0 points.
Team Violations
Team gymnast(s) compete in wrong order on an apparatus. 1.00 from the Team’s Total Score on the applicable
apparatus (By the Superior Jury President).
Non respect of the official warm up time. 1.00 from the Team’s Total Score each time (By the
Superior Jury President)
Violations of attire regulations that apply to Team Competition. 1.00 from the Team’s Total Score, once per
competition (By the Superior Jury President.
Article 2.5 Gymnasts’ Oath
“In the name of all gymnasts, I promise that we shall take part in this World Championships (or any other official FIG Event) respecting
and abiding by the rules which govern them, committing ourselves to a sport without doping and without drugs, in the true spirit of
sportsmanship, for the glory of sport and the honour of the gymnasts.”
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 7

Section 3 - Regulations for coaches
Article 3.1 Rights of the Coaches
The coach is guaranteed the right to:
a) Assist the gymnast or team under his care in submitting written requests related to the raising of apparatus and the rating of
a new vault or element.
b) Assist the gymnast or team under their care on the podium during the warm up period on all apparatus.
c) Help the gymnast or team prepare the apparatus for competition. Preparation of any apparatus may be performed by
coaches for the upcoming rotation upon completion of the final exercise in the current rotation and publication of the last
gymnast’s score on that apparatus.
d) Lift the gymnast to a hanging position on the Rings and Horizontal Bar.
e) Be present on the podium after the green light is lit to remove the springboard on Parallel Bars.
f) Be present at Rings and Horizontal Bar during the gymnast’s exercise for reasons of safety.
g) Assist or advise the gymnast during the thirty seconds after a fall on all apparatus and between the first and second vault.
h) Have their gymnast’s score publicly displayed immediately following their performance or in accordance with the specific
regulations governing that competition.
i) Be present at all apparatus to help in case of injuries or defects of the apparatus.
j) Inquire to Superior Jury concerning the evaluation of the content of the exercise of the gymnast (see Art. 3.4).
k) Request to Superior Jury a review of the Time and Line deductions.
Article 3.2 Responsibilities of the Coaches to:
a) Know the Code of Points and conduct themselves accordingly.
b) Submit the competition order and other information required in accordance with the Code of Points and/or the FIG Technical
Regulations that govern that competition.
c) Refrain from changing the height of any apparatus or adding, rearranging or removing springs from the springboard.
d) Refrain from delaying the competition, obstructing the view of the judges and from otherwise abusing or interfering with the
rights of any other participant.
e) Refrain from speaking to the gymnast or from assisting in any other way (give signals, shouts, cheers or similar) during his
performance.
f) Refrain from engaging in discussions with active judges and/or other persons outside of the field of play during the competition
(exception: team doctor, delegation leader).
g) Refrain from any other undisciplined or abusive behavior.
h) Conduct themselves in a fair and sportsmanlike manner at all times during the competition and Award Ceremony.
NOTE: See Deductions for Violations and Unsportsmanlike Behavior.
Number of Coaches permitted in the field of play:
Qualifications and Team Final Competition
- Complete teams 1 or 2 coaches
- Nations with individuals 1 coach
All - Around Competition and Apparatus Finals Competition for
- Each gymnast 1 coach
Article 3.3 Penalties - Behavior of the coach
By the Superior Jury President For FIG Official and Registered Competitions
Behavior of Coach with no direct impact on the result/performance of the gymnast/team
Unsportsmanlike conduct (valid for all phases of the competition). 1st time, Yellow card for coach (warning).
2nd time, Red card for coach and removal of coach from the
competition.*
Other flagrant, undisciplined and abusive behaviour (valid for all Immediate Red card for coach and removal of coach from the
phases of the competition). competition.*
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 8

Behaviour of Coach with direct impact on the result/performance of the gymnast/team
Unsportsmanlike conduct, i.e. unexcused delay or interruption of 1st time (from gymnast/team at event) and Yellow card for
competition, speaking to active judges during the competition coach (warning) if coach speaks to active judges.
except to D1 judge (inquiry only permitted), speaking directly to
1st time (from gymnast/team at event) and Yellow card for
the gymnast, by giving signals, shouts (cheers) or similar during
coach (warning) if coach speaks aggressively to active judges.
the exercise, etc.
2nd time – 1.00 (from gymnast/team at event), Red card for coach
and removal of coach from the competition floor.*
Other flagrant, undisciplined and abusive behaviour, i.e. incorrect (from gymnast/team at event), immediate Red card for
presence of unauthorized persons in inner circle during coach and removal of coach from the competition floor.*
competition, etc.
Note: If one of the two coaches from a team is dismissed from the competition inner circle, it is possible to replace that coach with another coach
one time during the entire competition.
1st offense = yellow card.
2nd offense = red card, at which time the coach is excluded from the rest of the competition phases.
* if there is only one coach, then the coach would remain in the competition but would not be eligible for accreditation at the next World
Championships, Olympic Games.
Article 3.4 Inquiries
Please refer to FIG TR (FIG Technical Regulations).
Article 3.5 Coaches’ Oath
“In the name of all Coaches and other members of the athlete’s entourage, I promise that we shall commit ourselves to ensuring that
the spirit of sportsmanship and ethics is fully adhered to and upheld in accordance with the fundamental principles of Olympism. We
shall commit ourselves to educating the gymnasts to adhere to fair play and drug free sport and to respect all FIG Rules governing the
World Championships.”
Section 4 - Regulations for the Technical Committee
Article 4.1 The President of the MTC.
The President of the Men’s Technical Committee or his representative will serve as Superior Jury President. Their responsibilities and
those of the Superior Jury include:
a) The overall technical direction of the competition as outlined in the FIG Technical Regulations.
b) To call and chair all judges’ meetings and instruction sessions.
c) To apply the stipulations of the Judges’ Regulations applying to that competition.
d) To deal with requests for evaluation of new elements, raising the Horizontal Bar, leaving the competition area, and other
issues that may arise. Such decisions are normally made by the Men’s Technical Committee.
e) To make sure that the time schedule published in the Work plan is respected.
f) To control the work of the Apparatus Supervisors and intervene if deemed necessary. Except in case of an inquiry, time or line
revision, generally no change of score is allowed after the score has been flashed on the score board.
g) To deal with inquiries as outlined herein.
h) In cooperation with the members of the Superior Jury, to issue warnings to or replace any person acting in any judging capacity
who is considered to be unsatisfactory or to have broken their oath.
i) To conduct a video analysis (post competition) with the TC to determine errors in judgment and to submit the results of the
Judges evaluation to the GEF (Gymnastics Ethics Foundation) Disciplinary Commission.
j) To supervise the checking of the apparatus measurement specifications according to the FIG Apparatus Norms.
k) In unusual or special circumstances may nominate a judge to the competition.
l) To submit a report to the FIG Executive Committee, which must be sent to the FIG Secretary General as soon as possible, but
no later than 30 days after the event, which contains the following:
· General remarks about the competition including special occurrences and conclusions for the future.
· Detailed analyses of the judges’ performance including proposals for rewarding the best judges and sanctions against
the judges who fail to meet expectations within 3 months.
· Detailed list of all interventions (score changes before and after publication).
· Technical analyses of the D-scores.
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 9

Article 4.2 The MTC Members
During each phase of the competition, the members of the Men’s Technical Committee or their representatives will serve as
members of the Superior Jury and Apparatus Supervisors.
Their responsibilities include:
a) To participate in the direction of the judges’ meetings and instruction sessions and guide the judges to perform the correct
work on their respective apparatus.
b) To apply the Judges’ Regulations control with fairness, consistency and completely in accordance with the currently valid
regulations and criteria.
c) To record the entire exercise content in symbol notation.
d) To calculate the D and E Scores (control scores) for the purpose of evaluation of the D and E Juries.
e) To control the total evaluation and the final score for each exercise.
f) To check the apparatus used at training, warm-up and competition with the FIG Apparatus Norms.
Section 5 - Regulations and Structure of Judges’ Panel
Article 5.1 Responsibilities
Every judge is fully and solely responsible for their own scores. All members of the Judges’ Panel have the responsibility to:
a) Have thorough knowledge of:
- the FIG Technical Regulations,
- the Code of Points,
- the FIG Judges’ Rules,
- any other technical information necessary to carry out their duties during a competition.
b) Have extensive knowledge in contemporary gymnastics and to understand the intent, purpose, interpretation, and application of each
rule.
c) Attend all scheduled instruction sessions and meetings of judges before the respective Competition (extraordinary exceptions,
which were unavoidable, will be decided by the FIG MTC).
d) Adhere to any special organisational or judging related instruction given by the governing authorities (i.e. Scoring system
instructions).
e) Participation in podium training is not mandatory for all judges unless indicated in the directives of the competition.
f) Be thoroughly prepared for all apparatus
g) Be capable of fulfilling the various necessary duties, which include:
- Correctly completing any required score sheets.
- Using any necessary computer equipment.
- Facilitate the efficient running of the competition.
h) Be well prepared, rested, vigilant, and punctually present at least one hour before the start of competition or according to the
instructions from the Work plan.
i) Wear the FIG prescribed competition uniform dark blue suit, white shirt with tie, except competitions, where the uniform is
supplied by the Organizing Committee.
During the competition judges must:
a) Behave at all times in a professional manner and exemplify non-partisan ethical behaviour.
b) Fulfill the functions outlined as specified in Article 5.4.
c) Evaluate each exercise accurately, consistently, quickly, objectively and fairly.
d) Maintain a record of their personal scores.
e) Remain in own assigned seat (except with the consent of D1 judge) and refrain from having contact or discussions with gymnasts,
coaches, delegation leaders or other judges.
Penalties for inappropriate evaluation and behaviour by judges will be in accordance with the current version of the FIG Judges’
Rules and/or the FIG TR that apply to that competition.
Article 5.2 Rights
In case of an intervention by the Superior Jury, the Judge has the right to explain their score and to agree (or not) to a change. In
case of disagreement the Judge may be overruled by the Superior Jury and shall be informed accordingly.
In case of arbitrary action taken against a judge, they have the right to file an appeal:
a) To the Superior Jury, if the action was initiated by the Apparatus Supervisor or
b) To the Jury of Appeal, if the action was initiated by the Superior Jury.
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 10

Article 5.3 Composition of the Judges’ Panel
Article 5.3.1 The Judges’ Panel
For the official FIG Competitions, World Championships and Olympic Games, the Judges’ Panel will
consist of a D-Jury and an E-Jury.
- The D Judges are drawn and appointed by the FIG Technical Committee in accordance with the most
current FIG Technical Regulations
- E Judges and supplementary positions will be drawn under the authority of the TC in accordance with the
current FIG Technical Regulations or Judges’ Rules that govern that competition.
- The structure of the Judges’ Panel for the various types of competitions should be as follows:
WCH and OG Other Events
9 Judges: Please refer to
2 D Judges FIG General Judges'
7 E Judges Rules
Article 5.3.2 Line and Time judges:
- 2 line judges for Floor Exercise,
- 1 line judge for Vault,
- 1 time judge for Floor Exercise,
Modifications to the Judges’ Panels are possible for other international competitions and for national and local
competitions.
Article 5.4 Function of the Judges’ Panel.
Article 5.4.1 Functions of the D-Jury.
a) D Judges record the entire exercise content in symbol notation, evaluate independently, without bias and then jointly
determine the D-score content. Discussion is permitted.
b) The D-Jury enters the D-score into the computer.
c) The D-score content includes:
- The value of elements (difficulty value) according to the table of elements.
- The connection value, based on special rules for each apparatus.
- The number and the value of Element Group Requirements executed.
Function of The D1 judge:
a) To serve as liaison between the Judges’ Panel and the Apparatus Supervisor. The Apparatus Supervisor will then consult when
necessary with the Superior Jury.
b) To coordinate the work of the Time Judges, Line Judges and Secretaries.
c) To ensure the efficient running of the apparatus including the control of warm up time.
d) To display the green light or other conspicuous signal to notify the gymnasts they must begin their exercise within thirty
seconds.
e) To ensure that neutral deductions for time, line, behaviour faults are taken from the Final Score before being released.
f) To ensure the correct penalties for a short exercise are applied.
g) To ensure the following deductions are applied for:
- Failure to present before and after the exercise.
- Performance of an invalid “0” vault.
- Assistance during the: Vault, Exercise and Dismounts.
Function of the D-Jury after the Competition:
Will submit a written competition report, as directed by the TC President with the following information:
- Forms listing violations, ambiguities and questionable decisions with the number and name of the gymnast.
- The content of all exercises to the President of the Men’s Technical Committee and the Apparatus Supervisor in the
Superior Jury in one of the official FIG languages within 2 weeks of the competition.
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 11

Article 5.4.2 Functions of the E-Jury
a) They must observe the exercises attentively, evaluate the faults and apply the corresponding deductions correctly,
independently and without consulting the other judges.
b) They must record the deductions for:
- General Faults.
- Technical compositional errors.
- Positional Errors.
c) They must complete the score slip with a legible signature or enter their deductions into the computer.
d) They must be able to provide a personal written record of their evaluation of all exercises.
Article 5.5 Functions of the Time Judges, Line Judges.
Article 5.5.1 The Time and Line Judges
The Time and Line Judges are drawn from among the Brevet judges to serve as:
Line judges to:
- Determine on Floor and VT stepping outside of the border marking and to acknowledge the fault by raising a red flag.
- Inform the D1 judge of any violation and deduction and sign and submit the appropriate written record.
- On Vault control the number of vaults executed during warm up.
Time judges are required to:
- Time the duration of the exercise (FX).
- On FX give an audible signal to the gymnast at completion of 60 and 70 seconds.
- Inform the D1 judge of any violation and deduction and sign and submit the appropriate written record.
- For time violations where there is no computer input, the time judge must record the exact amount of time over the time
limit.
Article 5.5.2 Functions of the Secretaries.
The Secretaries need to have COP and computer knowledge. They are usually appointed by the Organizing Committee. Under the
supervision of the D1 judge, they are responsible for the accuracy of all entries into the computers:
- Adherence to the correct order of the teams and gymnasts.
- Operating the green and red lights.
- Correct releasing of the Final Score.
- Time the duration of the fall period.
- Press the start button to show the green light is lit and show gymnast the exercise can commence.
Article 5.6 Seating Arrangements
The judges will be seated at a location and distance from the apparatus which permits an unobstructed view of the total performance
and which permits them to fulfill all of their evaluation duties.
- D Judges must be in line with the centre of the apparatus.
- The Time Judge sits by the Judges’ Panel (either side).
- The line judges at FX must sit at opposite corners and observe the 2 lines closest to them.
- The line judge at Vault must sit at the far end of the landing area.
- The placement of the E-Jury will be clockwise around the apparatus beginning from the left of the D-Jury, or judges are placed in a
straight line the D2, E1, E2 and E3 will be seated to the left of the D1 in that order and Secretary, E7, E6, E5 and E4 will sit to the
right in that order
Variations in the seating arrangement are possible depending on the conditions available in the competition hall.
Article 5.7 Judge’s Oath (FIG TR 7.12)
At the World Championships, and other important international events, juries and judges pledge to respect the terms of the Judges’
Oath:
“In the name of all the judges and officials, I promise that we shall officiate in these World Championships (or any other official FIG
Event) with complete impartiality, respecting and abiding by the rules which govern them, in the true spirit of sportsmanship.”
Article 5.8 MAG Naming of New Elements
• Performed internationally for the first time at an official FIG Group 1, 2 or 3 competition (with or without an official FIG TD present)
• C value or higher and performed for value without a fall.
• Difficulty value and name will only be confirmed following a TC analysis of the performance
• If more than one gymnast at the same competition performs the same new element, the element will be named after all gymnasts.
• The Federation of the gymnast has the responsibility to submit a video of the proposed new element to the FIG TC President as
soon as possible after the competition. In addition, the competition TD must submit the official video, original video and drawing
submitted by the coach (if available), and all details about the provisional evaluation given at the competition, to the FIG TC
President as soon as possible.
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 12

PART II - Evaluation of exercises
Section 6 - The Evaluation of Competition Exercises
Article 6.1 General Rules
1. Two separates scores, “D” and “E”, will be calculated on all apparatus.
- The D-Jury determine the D-score, the content of an exercise, and the E-Jury the E-score, i.e. the exercise presentation related to
compositional requirements, technique and body position.
- D-score content will include by addition :
- The additional difficulty value of 8 elements, the best 7, but maximum 4 elements for the same Element Group, inside the best
counting plus the value of the dismount. If the judge needs to choose the counting 7 elements from elements which have the
same value but belong to different Element Groups, he must determine them to the benefit of the gymnast.
Example 1: Example 2 : Floor
I I II III III III III II II IV II II I I IV II III II IV III
A B B B B B C E C D A D B D B D D D D D
B B B B C E C D D B D D D D D D
In bold letters counting element
- The connections value, based on special rules on different apparatus.
- Element Group Requirements Value, performed among the 8 counting elements.
- E-score, will start from 10 points and will evaluate by deductions applied in tenths of a point:
- The total deductions for aesthetic and execution errors.
- The total deductions for technical and compositional errors.
- The highest and the lowest sums of total deductions applied in tenths of a point for execution, aesthetic, technical and compositional
errors are eliminated. The average remaining sums is subtracted from the 10 points in order to determine the Final E-Score.
The E-score is calculated as follows:
7 E-score deductions: average the middle 3
5 E-score deductions: average the middle 3
4 E-score deductions: average the middle 2
3 E-score deductions: average the 3
2 E-score deductions: average the 2
Article 6.2 - Determination of the Final Score
1. The Final Score of an exercise will be established by the addition of the D-Score and Final E-scores.
2. The rules governing the evaluation of the exercises and the determination of the Final Score are identical for all sessions of optional
competition (Qualifications, Team Final, All-Around Final, Apparatus Finals) except for Vault, where special rules in Qualifications and in
Apparatus Finals apply (see Section 13).
3. The All-Around Score is the sum of the Final Scores obtained on the six exercises.
4. The Team’s Total Score is calculated in accordance with the current FIG Technical Regulations that govern that competition.
1. Qualification for, and participation in, the Team Final, the All-Around Final, and the Apparatus Finals will occur in accordance with the current
FIG Technical Regulations that govern that competition.
1. The Final Score is normally calculated by the competition scoring personnel, but must be confirmed
Neutral Deduction
by the Apparatus Supervisor before it is displayed. Number of elements (ND)
1. At official FIG competitions, the single D-score from the D-Jury and the Final E-score will be displayed.
8 Ju0or
Each individual E-score of the E-Jury will appear on the main results form. At all other competitions,
7 0
the D-score, E-score and the Final Score must be displayed.
6 0
Article 6.3 - Short exercise 5 3.0
4 4.0
For exercise presentation, the gymnast may earn a maximum E-Score of 10.00 points.
3 5.0
The D-Jury will take the appropriate neutral deduction (ND) for a short exercise from the Final
Score. 2 6.0
1 7.0
0 10.0
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 13

Section 7 - Regulations Governing the D-score
Article 7.1 Difficulty Value (DV)
1. On Floor Exercise, Pommel Horse, Rings, Parallel Bars, and Horizontal Bar, the following difficulty values will count in all
competitions:
Difficulty A B C D E F G H I J
Value 0.10 0.20 0.30 0.40 0.50 0.60 0.70 0.80 0.90 1.00
2. To the extent possible, only single elements are included in the Difficulty Tables. Each element is given a unique difficulty value
and a unique Code Identification Number.
3. Elements that are not listed in the Difficulty Tables must be submitted for a difficulty rating to the Superior Jury President 24
hours in advance of podium training at official FIG Competitions. Provisional difficulty ratings may be given by Technical Authorities
at other international, national, and local competitions.
4. An element (or element with the same Code Identification Number) may be repeated but such repeated element may not contribute
towards the D-score. See additional regulations restricting repetition for Pommel Horse and Rings in Section 11 and 12.
5. Elements that no longer appear in the Code are considered elements without difficulty value.
Article 7.2 Element Group and Dismount Requirements
1. With this evaluation category, the judge evaluates those required movement patterns which, in addition to the gymnast’s personal
inclinations and technical abilities, are intended to enhance the variety of movement in the construction of an exercise.
2. Each apparatus, except for Floor Exercise has three Element Groups designated as I, II, III, and a Dismount Group designated as
IV. Floor Exercise has four Element Groups.
3. In his exercise, the gymnast must include at least one element from each of the three Element Groups, and four for Floor Exercise.
4. An element may meet the Element Group requirement only for the Element Group under which it is located in the Difficulty Tables.
5. Each Element Group requirement fulfilled by D or higher element (inside the 7 (8 on Floor) counting elements) is awarded with
0.5 points by the D-Jury.
6. Each Element Group requirement fulfilled by A, B, C, is awarded with 0.3 points by the D-Jury (except EG I for All Apparatus where
any element awarded with 0.5 points)
7. Every exercise must end with a dismount listed under the Dismount Element Group and land on the feet first. (see Section 10 and 13
for specific regulations for Floor Exercise and Vault).
8. Regarding Dismount element group requirements, the following rule will be applied:
• Dismount element group value equals the Difficulty value of the dismount. (e.g. F dismount gets 0.6 for Difficulty Value and
0.6 as Element group value)
9. Stick landing after the dismount, min C (also Vaults with saltos) will be awarded with 0.1 bonus by the D-Jury, except the Pommel
Horse
Article 7.3 Connection Points
1. This evaluation factor provides the D-Jury with the possibility of rewarding special connections. These connection points serve to
differentiate the exercises which contain special connections between elements, as described on each apparatus.
2. Connection Points may be awarded only for directly connected recognized high value elements performed without a large error.
Article 7.4 Evaluation by the D-Jury
1. The D-Jury is responsible for evaluating the content of the exercise and determining the correct D-score on each apparatus as defined
in Sections 10 to 15. Except in the circumstances defined in Article 7.4 the D-Jury is obligated to recognize and credit each element
that is correctly performed.
2. The gymnast is expected to include in his exercise only elements that he can perform with complete safety and with a high degree of
aesthetic and technical mastery. Very poorly performed elements will not be recognized by the D-Jury and will be deducted by the
E-Jury.
3. Each element is defined to the perfect end position or as being performed with perfection.
4. An element that is not recognized by the D-Jury will receive no value.
5. An element will not be recognized by the D-Jury if it deviates significantly from the prescribed execution. An element will not be
recognized or credited for reasons including, but not necessarily restricted to, the following:
a) If, on Floor Exercise, the element is performed beginning outside of the floor area (see Section 10 Art. 10.2.1.3a).
b) If, on Vault, the gymnast performs an invalid Vault as defined in Section 13.
c) If on Horizontal Bar, an element is performed with or from feet on the bar (see Section 15).
d) If a hold or strength element with straddled legs not listed in the difficulty tables is performed on any apparatus.
e) If the element is so altered in performance that it can no longer lay any claim to its identification number or value (see
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 14

also Appendix A.3.i), for example:
i. A strength element performed almost entirely with swing or vice versa.
ii. A straight position element performed with a distinct tuck or pike or vice versa. In such cases an element
is normally given the value of the element as performed.
iii. A strength element normally performed with legs together is performed with legs straddled.
iv. A strength hold element performed with significantly bent arms.
v. An element in or to handstand on Rings that is controlled with the legs or feet against the cables.
f) If the element has been completed with the assistance of a spotter.
g) If the gymnast falls on or from the apparatus during an element, or alters, or interrupts it in some other manner.
h) If the gymnast falls on or from the apparatus during an element without having reached an end position that permits
continuation with at least a swing.
i) If a strength hold element or a simple hold element is not held.
j) If a press or pull out comes from a strength hold element which has not been recognized or credited for any reason.
k) If a twisting element on most apparatus is performed with an over or under rotation of > 90° or if a swinging element
is performed with a deviation from the perfect end position of > 45° (see also Appendix A.3.i). In some circumstances,
an under rotation of > 90° may result in the recognition of a lower value for the vault/element by the D-Jury.
l) If, on Pommel Horse, elements in cross support or in side support deviate from the correct support orientation by 45°
for the greater portion of the element.
m) If strength hold positions or simple hold positions on any apparatus deviate from the correct horizontal body, arm,
or leg position by 45°
6. In all cases, the D-Jury is to make decisions based on gymnastics sense and to decide in the interests of the sport of gymnastics.
7. Elements performed so poorly that they are not recognized by the D-Jury will normally be severely deducted by the E-Jury as well.
8. The elements with the highest difficulty values will be counted first in cases of Special Repetition.
Article 7.5 Repetition
1. An exercise may not be repeated unless the gymnast has to interrupt his exercise for reasons outside of his control.
2. If the gymnast falls on or from the apparatus, he may choose to continue with his exercise from the fall or to repeat the missed
element for credit and continue from there. (See Article 9.2.5).
3. No element (same Code Identification Number) may be repeated for difficulty credit or for Connection Points. This applies also to
elements repeated in connections (exceptions: certain Pommel Horse elements and circles that increase in value if performed
twice in special combinations, and Rings - see Section 11 and 12).
4. If the difficulty of an element is not recognized for any reason, then that element can also not meet an Element Group Requirement.
Article 7.6 D-Jury Evaluation
Gymnast’s Actions D-Jury evaluation
Errors leading to non-recognition (see Article 7.4 and 9.4) Non-recognition of the Difficulty
Assistance by spotter in completion of element Non-recognition of the Difficulty
Not holding Non-recognition of the Difficulty
Repeated element Permitted but given no value
Pushing with feet for dismount or other non-legitimate Non-recognition of the element and dismount element group
dismount requirement
Other prohibited elements No recognition of the element
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 15

Section 8 - Regulations Governing E-score
Article 8.1 Description of Exercise Presentation
1. The Exercise Presentation consists of only those factors that constitute the essence of a contemporary gymnastics performance and
the absence of which results in deductions by the E-Jury. These factors are:
a) The technical, compositional (general expectations for exercise construction) aesthetic and execution.
2. The Exercise Presentation has a maximum value of 10.0 points.
Article 8.2 Calculation of E-Jury deductions
1. The judges of the E-Jury, will judge an exercise and determine the deductions independently and do so within 20 seconds of the
completion of the exercise.
Each performance is evaluated with reference to expectations of perfect performance. All deviations from this expectation are
deducted.
a) Deductions for errors in aesthetic and execution, technique and composition are summed to a maximum of 10.0
points for Exercise Presentation.
Article 8.3 Instructions for the Gymnast
1. The gymnast must include in his exercise only elements that he can perform with complete safety and with a high degree of
aesthetic and technical mastery. The responsibility for his safety rests entirely with him. The E-Jury is required to deduct very
rigorously for any aesthetic, execution, composition and technical errors.
2. The gymnast must never attempt to increase the difficulty or the D-score at the expense of aesthetic and technical execution.
3. All mounts must commence from the basic stand position, from a short run (only Parallel Bars and Horizontal Bar), or from a still
hang. Pre-elements or intermediate elements may not precede the mount. This rule does not apply to Vault where the specific rules
stated for that apparatus apply.
4. Dismounts from all apparatus, as well as the conclusion on Floor Exercise and Vault, must end in a standing position with the legs
together. With the exception of Floor Exercise, pushing from the apparatus with the feet in order to execute the dismount is not
permitted.
Section 9 - Technical Directives
Article 9.1 Evaluation by the E-Jury.
1. The E-Jury is responsible for evaluating all of the aesthetic, execution and technical performance aspects of an exercise as well as
its compliance with the composition (exercise construction expectations) for that apparatus. In each case the E-Jury is to demand
that elements be performed with perfection and to perfect end positions (see also Appendix A.2).
2. The E-Jury is not to concern at all with the difficulty of an exercise. The judge is obligated to deduct equally severely for any error
of the same magnitude regardless of the difficulty of the element or the connection.
3. Judges of the E-Jury (and the D-Jury) must remain up-to-date with contemporary gymnastics, must know at all times what the most
contemporary performance expectation for an element should be, and must know how standards are changing as the sport evolves.
In this context they must also know what is possible, what is reasonable to expect, what is an exception, and what is a special
effect (see also Appendix A.4).
4. The E-Jury must understand to refrain from deducting when some elements, which otherwise have no errors, are performed for a
special effect or a special purpose. For example:
On Horizontal Bar, a giant swing is often modified in preparation for release elements and dismounts. These should not be deducted
for not passing through a handstand unless they are unnecessary or so extreme as to violate aesthetic, execution and technical
expectations.
5. If for any reason a judge of the E-Jury cannot reach a decision, the judge must give the benefit of the doubt to the gymnast.
6. The E-Jury is obligated to deduct twice for two distinctly different errors in an element, i.e. if the element has both a technical
and an aesthetic execution error. For example a Stützkehre on Parallel Bars may receive both deductions for angular deviation and
for bent knees.
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 16

Article 9.2 Determination of Execution and Technical Errors.
1. Each element is defined to the perfect end position or as being performed with perfection. (Refer to APPENDICES).
2. All deviations from correct performance are considered execution or technical errors and must be evaluated accordingly by the
judges. The amount of the deduction for small, medium, or large errors is determined by the degree of deviation from the correct
performance. The same deduction is applied each time for the same severity of bending, whether it be the arms, legs, or the body.
3. The following deductions will apply for each and every discernible aesthetic or technical deviation from the expected perfect
performance. These deductions must be taken regardless of the difficulty of the element or exercise.
Small Error 0.1
Medium Error 0.3
Large Error 0.5
Fall 1.0
a) Small errors: (deduction = 0.1)
i. Any minor or slight deviation from the perfect end position and from perfect technical execution.
ii. Any minor adjustments to hand, foot, or body position.
iii. Any other minor violations against aesthetic and technical performance expectations.
b) Medium errors: (deduction = 0.3)
i. Any distinct or significant deviation from the perfect end position and from perfect technical execution.
ii. Any distinct or significant adjustments to hand, foot, or body position.
iii. Any other distinct or significant violation against aesthetic and technical performance expectations.
c) Large errors: (deduction = 0.5)
i. Any major or severe deviation from the perfect end position and from perfect technical execution.
ii. Any major or severe adjustments to hand, foot, or body position.
iii. Any full intermediate swing.
Any other major or severe violations against aesthetic and technical performance expectations.
d) Falls and spotter assistance: (deduction = 1.0 p.)
i. Any fall on or from the apparatus during an element without having reached an end position that permits continuation
with at least a swing (i.e. a distinct hang phase on Horizontal Bar or a distinct support phase on Pommel Horse after the
element in question) or that otherwise fails to display a momentary control of the element during landing or re-grasp.
ii. -1.0 is the maximum deduction for an element with a fall, and including all steps, touches, or support on the floor or mat
leading up to the fall. Other execution deductions incurred for the element (height, landing extension, insufficient twist)
still apply.
iii. Any assistance by a spotter that contributes to the completion of an element.
4. On all apparatus at the end of the exercise, if a gymnast does not perform a dismount, but lands intentionally on the feet, no
deduction for a fall will be considered.
5. After a fall on or from the apparatus, the exercise may be continued within 30 seconds and the gymnast may use a necessary number
of elements or movements to return to his starting position but all of these elements and movements must be performed with
perfect execution. He is permitted to repeat the missed element for credit, except if the fall occurred during a dismount (except
Pommel Horse) or a Vault.
6. Execution errors such as bent knees, bent arms, bad posture or body position, poor rhythm, poor amplitude, etc. are listed in Articles
9.2 and 9.3 and are always deducted according to the degree of error or deviation from what is considered perfect performance.
7. Execution errors such as bending the arms, legs or body are categorized as follows:
Small error Medium error Large error
Slight bending Strong bending Extreme bending
For better differentiation apply the following angular deviation principles:
Mistake Angular deviation Deduction
Slight bending >0° - 45°
Strong bending >45° - 90°
Extreme bending >90° + NR
The only exceptions:
- Parallel Bars, bending of the legs before horizontal during the swing action of a Moy or any giant swing element AND after Bhavsar
type of elements.
- Horizontal Bar, bending of the legs during swing action AND bending of the arms during the regrasp after flight elements
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 17

The Code of Points gives specific deductions for these exceptions.
8. During hold positions and strength presses, the arms (and where relevant the body) must be straight throughout the execution of
the element. If the arms and/or body bend at any point the deduction is:
Mistake Angular deviation Deduction
Small 0° - 15°
Medium >15° - 30°
Large >30° - 45°
Large >45° + NR
9. For strength hold or simple hold positions on any apparatus, angular deviations from the perfect hold position define the magnitude
of the technical error and the corresponding technical deduction:
Examples: Small error Medium error Large error
>5°-20° >20° - 45° > 45° NR
10. A press from a static strength element that did not have its difficulty recognized for any reason will also not have its difficulty
recognized. The subsequent strength part may be recognised if technical requirements have been fulfilled.
11. If the preceding strength hold element has received a deduction for incorrect position, then the same deduction up to a
maximum of 0.30 points applies again to a press from that strength hold element if it is determined that the press has been
simplified thereby. This interpretation is intended only for circumstances where a high position or a technically poor hold makes
the subsequent press easier (i.e. not for presses from faulty L sits, false grips, or for time of hold positions). This deduction only
applies to a high angle deduction being applied to both elements connected by strength.
12. Technical deductions for angular deviation from the perfect end position can also apply to swinging skills. In most cases the
perfect end position is defined as a perfect handstand, or during Pommel Horse circles, as a perfect cross support or perfect side
support position. For swinging elements the following applies:
a) On Floor Exercise, Pommel Horse, Rings, Parallel Bars and Horizontal Bar, swing elements are often expected to be performed
through rather than to an exact handstand otherwise the rhythm of an exercise might be interrupted. For that reason a small
angular deviation of up to 15° from an exact handstand is permitted up to the conclusion of the element. A small deduction is
taken if the deviation from the handstand is from >15° to 30°.
b) On Pommel Horse, circles and most elements must be performed in, from, or to within 15° of a perfect cross or side support
position. The appropriate angular deviation deduction is taken each time the error occurs during an exercise. This means that the
E-Jury would deduct for each skewed circle, whereas the D-Jury would not recognize the element if it deviates from the correct
support orientation more than 45° for the greater portion of the element.
13. During swing elements which pass through or end in handstand (see additional rule Art. 15.2 for Horizontal Bar), deviations
from the correct position will be penalized as follows:
up to 15° No deduction.
>15° to 30° Small error.
>30° to 45° Medium error.
> 45° Large error and non-recognition (D-Jury).
Note: Deviations in end positions for swinging elements of
>45° (or for twisting elements, of >90°) will receive a large deduction from the E-Jury and will not be recognized by the D-Jury.
However, in some cases, it may be possible for an element with incomplete twist to be recognized as a lower value element in
accordance with the amount of twist correctly completed.
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 18

14. On Rings, during swings to a hold position or strength presses, the shoulders and/or body may not rise above the perfect hold
position. If the shoulders and/or body rise above the perfect hold position, the deduction is:
>5° - 20° Small error.
>20° to 45° Medium error.
>45° Large error and non-recognition (D-Jury)
15. All hold elements must be held for a minimum of 2 seconds measured from the moment that a complete stop position has been
reached. Elements that are not held will receive large deduction and will not be recognized by the D-Jury.
2 seconds no deduction.
Less 2 seconds medium error.
No stop large error and non-recognition.
16. Deductions for poor landings are listed in Article 9.4. A correct landing is a prepared landing, not one which happens by luck to end
in a standing position. An element should be performed with such excellent technique that the gymnast has fully completed it and
has had time to reduce rotation and/or extend the body prior to landing.
17. Landings & Dismounts on the Feet without Deduction.
For safety reasons a gymnast may land or dismount with their feet apart (enough to properly join their heels together) upon landing
from any salto. This distance can also be defined as 10cm. If the feet are more than 10cm apart there will be a 0.1 or 0.3 deduction
taken, even if the heels are brought together after the initial. The gymnast must complete the landing by bringing his heels
together without lifting and moving the front of his feet. This is done by raising the heels off the mat and joining them together
without lifting the front of the feet. The arms must also be in complete control with no unnecessary swings.
Action (Without steps, hops, or arm swings) Result
Landing with feet slightly apart and gymnast lifts heels and joins both heels together No deduction
without lifting and moving the front of his feet
Landing with feet slightly apart or less than shoulder width apart and gymnast picks up deduction for landing with feet
a foot moving both feet together, OR does not join both feet together by lifting only apart
the heels
Landing with feet more than shoulder width apart, AND gymnast picks up one foot moving deduction for landing with feet
both feet together, OR does not join both feet together
apart
Note:
- All other execution deductions (those while in the flight phase of a salto or for lack of extension before landing) must always be considered in addition
to the landing requirements noted above.
18. During landings a small step is defined as a maximum of ‘one foot’ distance between the feet or distance of the hop. Any
greater distance than this would be a large step or hop and attract a medium deduction.
19. A low landing is defined as the hips below the knees, which should be deducted 0.5 for technical error.
20. Additional technical deductions are listed in Article 9.4 and specifically for each apparatus in the appropriate Chapter.
Article 9.3 Expectations for Exercise Construction
1. The expectations for exercise construction are those aspects of an exercise that define the essence of our expectations and
understanding of a gymnastics performance on each apparatus; such things as using the full floor area; swinging without stops; no
repetition; etc. These are specifically defined for each apparatus in the appropriate chapter.
2. Exercise construction errors include, but are not restricted to, the following:
a) Large separation of legs (medium error = p. E-Jury):
i. The gymnast may not perform elements with a separation of legs that serves no useful purpose or that detracts from the
aesthetics of a performance. For example, on Parallel Bars a Stützkehre or a pirouette may not be performed with legs
apart; on Horizontal Bar and Rings, elements may not be performed with a back-forward separation of the legs; on
Rings, crosses, swallows, and handstands may not be performed with a separation of the legs; etc. Most elements
permitted or required to be performed with separated legs are listed in the Difficulty Tables.
b) Repetition of elements
i. Repeating of elements is permitted, but they cannot receive credit for difficulty or connection points. However, they
are evaluated normally by the E-Jury.
c) Layaways, empty and intermediate swings (medium or large error = or by the E-Jury):
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 19

i. An empty swing is a swing at the end of which no element is performed or no new support or hang position or grip is
achieved (medium error by the E-Jury).
ii. An intermediate swing is two successive empty swings (large error by the E-Jury).
iii. Layaways are back swings in support or in upper arm support that simply reverse direction and swing back down in
or to a lower hang or support position (also if accompanied by a grip change) (medium error by the E-Jury).
d) Lowering of Legs during any element to handstand or hold parts. The table below shows the deductions to be taken for
lowering of the legs:
Action Angle Deviation from
E-Jury D-Jury original position
- 0.1 - 0°-15°
- 0.3 - >15°-30°
- 0.5 - >30°-45°
- 0.5 - non-recognition >45° NR
Article 9.4 E-Jury deductions
These deductions are to be applied on all apparatus and Floor Exercise by the E-Jury when the corresponding error is made. See Sections
10 to 15 for additional errors and deductions specific to each apparatus.
Error Small 0.10 Medium 0.30 Large 0.50
Deductions for aesthetic and execution errors
Non-distinct positions (tuck, pike, straight). ⚫ ⚫
Adjust or correct hand or grip position each time. ⚫
Walking in handstand or hopping (each step or hop).
⚫
Touching apparatus or floor with legs or feet. ⚫
Hitting apparatus or floor. ⚫
Gymnast touched but not assisted by spotter during
an exercise. ⚫
Interruption of exercise without fall. ⚫
Bent arms, bent legs or legs apart. ⚫ ⚫ ⚫
Poor posture or body position or postural corrections
⚫ ⚫
in end positions.
Saltos with knees or legs apart. ≤ shoulder width > shoulder width
Legs apart on landing. ≤ shoulder width > shoulder width
Unsteadiness, minor adjustment of feet, or excessive
⚫
arm swings on landing.
Loss of balance during any landing with no fall or Large step or large
Slight imbalance,
hand support. (Maximum -1.0 total for steps and hop or touching the
small step or small
hops). mat with 1 or 2
hop, 0.1 per step
hands
Fall or support with 1 or 2 hands during any landing.
Fall during any landing without feet contacting mat and non –recognition by
first. the D-Jury
Atypical straddle. ⚫
Other aesthetic errors. ⚫ ⚫ ⚫
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 20

Error Small 0.10 Medium 0.30 Large 0.50
Deductions for Technical errors
Deviations in swings to or through handstand or in
>45°and NR
circle elements. >15° - 30° >30° - 45°
Angular deviations from perfect hold positions.
>5° - 20° >20° - 45° >45° and NR
Press from poorly held positions. deductions equivalent to those for the hold position are repeated
(max. )
Incomplete twists. >60° - 90°
up to 30° >30° - 60°
>90°and NR
Lack of height or amplitude on salto and flight
elements. ⚫ ⚫
Additional or intermediate hand support. ⚫
Strength with swing and vice versa. (SEE RINGS) ⚫ ⚫ ⚫
Duration of hold parts (2 sec.). less 2 sec. no stop and NR
Interruption in upward movement. ⚫ ⚫
Lowering of legs on any element to handstand or hold >30° - 45°
parts. 0 - 15° >15°-30° >45° NR.
Unsteadiness in or fall from handstand. ⚫ swing or big disturbance
Fall from or onto apparatus.
Intermediate swing or layaway. half or layaway full
Assistance by spotter in the completion of an element. and NR
Lack of extension in preparation for landing.
⚫ ⚫
Other technical errors. ⚫ ⚫ ⚫
Men’s Artistic Gymnastics – 2025-2028 Code of Points Page 21

